So vector-based databases, they let
you store and index high dimensional
vector representing text data allowing for
efficient similarity search and
retrieval of documents or phrases based
on their embedding representations.
So, what, first before trying to
understand that concept let's go back and
try to understand what's an embedding?
It's a method of converting
text into numerical vectors,
enabling efficient processing and
comparison of text data,
learn through training neural
network models on large amount
of text data is,
still weird to understand what they do.
We will take a text,
a chunk of text, for example,
my last ten minutes of speech,
and we can send that to open AI
not to the CBT model to a different
API that is called embeddings.
In return,
open AI will give us an array of numbers.
The array of numbers, that's an embedding
represents the text and the semantic
relationship of the text with other words,
it's difficult to understand actually.
But the idea is that we store
that in a database, but
it's not a normal database,
it's a vector-based database.
So that vector-based database will
let us then make semantic search.
So then when we have
the question from the user,
we can find exactly which vector is more
semantically related to that question.
The representation looks like
a dense vector of real numbers.
It's actually an array of numbers,
a large array of numbers.
And because it's number is also fast
to process for many algorithms, for
example, a word embedding the word
cat may look like an array of 0.2,
0.5 minute blah, blah, blah, blah.
Typically we're talking about
really large numbers and
infinite numbers when
you're looking at them,
so that's why we needed
an especial database for that.
So the method to work with this
is known as a split and embed.
So we're going to split our
document in slices in chunks.
By any character length, you pick one,
1000 characters 1500 even in fact,
you can play with different numbers and
see which one works better.
It doesn't need to be a semantic cut so
you can cut anywhere well here from
here to here, that's a slice, okay.
It can be a PDF, videos caption,
frequently asked questions,
wherever document lash document you have.
It can be even also like
an output from classic database
with all your customers,
with all your products,
with prices, so
you have cut it in slices, in chunks.
Sometimes you even overlap a little bit,
like 10% of the slice of the next
slice also contains the last
10% of the previous one.
We convert each slice into
its embedded representation.
How we pay Open AI for that?
We make a request, you do that once only.
We make a request to the open API for
embeddings,
that's a different API from
the ones that we have been using.
And in return GPT will give
us the vector representation,
the embedding of that chunk.
We then with that we store
the embeddings in a vector database that
you need to install, you need to use,
or you can use from the cloud.
There are a lot of cloud based solutions
that will solve you that problem.
And it's just numbers, it's numbers, okay?
So, we do that when we want
to create our database.
But then, the user is asking questions.
So, when we need a prompt, and we need
the prompt to answer the question from
our data, we search in the vector
database based on what the user needs.
The database will return the slice,
the chunk of the information that is
closer semantically to the query,
and that's the power of embeddings.
Then we checked that chunk of information,
that slice, as the context of the prompt.
We go back to the idea of
filing the context, right,
prompt engineering we are injecting
that slice of information that is
semantically close to
the query into the prompt.
This is how it looks like in a diagram,
so we have a use of prompt,
we have our app,
it's a server-side app, for example.
We have a vector database in our server or
in the Cloud, and
then we have the Open AI APIs.
So this is how it works.
We receive the users prompt,
it's a query, it's a question.
Then our app, we'll take the prompt and
talk to the Open AI embeddings API.
I have this question from the user.
The question is,
what's the price of the Open AI?
So what's the price of a token?
That's something that I said at
the beginning of the course.
So Open AI doesn't know about that.
But it receives a string, and it returns
me the embedding of that question.
Numbers, statistical
numbers are just numbers.
We then go with those embeddings to
our vector database and say, hey,
I have this embedding.
Find me the chunk that is semantically
closer to that embedding.
And your vector database will give you
the slice of relevant information,
the chunk of strings, the 1000 characters,
where I was talking about the price.
And then with that, you will add that
as a context of the use of prompt and
I'm making a final query
to the GPT API and
that will give me the output
that I essentially user.
That's the process today to create
a chatbot that will answer questions
about a lot of things that you have
in your system to documentation,
for example, if you have a documentation
of your API or if your app,
you have a big manual
of how something works.
It can be documentation about
a product that you are selling.
I'm selling laptops and I have a manual.
Well, how can I make a chatbot that
can answer questions about the manual?
Well, you split the manual in chunks,
you create the embeddings of those of each
chunk, you store that in a vector
database and when there is a question,
you do that process.
That's how embedding works.
It's a lot of work, yeah, I know that for
you as developer are expecting
something simpler.
Even a lot of people is expecting
actually fine-tuning Chat GPT, but
that's not possible with that model as of
today, and I don't think it's the idea.
So you can still fine-tune, and
you pay for that as well on Open AI.
Previous models not just CBT but for
church CBT it's everything
has to do with the prompt.